---
title: "CPPC: A New Method to Detect and Pick the Fault Zone Head Wave Arrivals and its Application in Xiaojiang Fault Zone of West-Southern China"
collection: talks
type: "Conference proceedings talk"
permalink: /talks/2019-12-13-talk-1
venue: "American Geophysical Union, Fall Meeting 2019"
date: 2019-12-13
location: "San Francisco, CA"
---

[More information here](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2019AGUFM.S53B..02Z/abstract)

Fault Zone Head Waves (FZHW) are generated by the velocity contrast of large fault zone's bimaterial interfaces. The velocity contrast can provide high-resolution imaging for fault interface. Since the time delay between FZHW and P arrivals is directly proportional to the distance along fault and the velocity contrast, we can use the relationship between the time delay and the distance to estimate the velocity contrast of bimaterial interfaces. However, since FZHW has a low amplitude comparing with P, and the time delay is often small, it is hard to detect FZHW arrivals using traditional energy-based methods, such as short-term-average over long-term-average (STA/LTA). Thus, we proposed 'Changing Point of Polarization-degree Curve' (CPPC), a new algorithm to detect and pick the arrival time of FZHW based on polarization analysis. We extract the feature of amplitude and polarization difference of FZHW and P by: (1) Cutting off time window near P arrival (3s before and 3s after) and preprocess by applying a 1Hz high-pass filter, and (2) calculate the polarization degree curve with PCA. The FZHW are then picked by detecting the changing point on the polarization degree. To test our method, we applied it on both synthetic seismograms and real data. We applied our method on 20 broad-band stations deployed on Xiaojiang fault zone of West-Southern China. Xiaojiang fault zone has significant lateral heterogeneity, which serves as a perfect testing set for our method. Finally, We successfully detected FZHW in a number of stations and compared with (1) manual picked result, and (2) method developed by Zefeng Li in 2016 and Z.E.Ross in 2014. Results show that our method can achieve accurately detection and precise phase picking for FZHW under low SNR. Besides, since our method is simple and has less parameters to decide by experience, it has a better generalization and can save computing resource.
